oh my gosh!!!
1202504152.235837:

i found the solution to the control flow merge point example problem   in ct eval!!!


its so simple 


its basically 



you take the input pred set      and find if  i is CTK     from all preds, 


		buttttt it is used in a RTK way  in thiss instruction 


	the key things is that 


	because we did a    i N loop



			our   merge point detection logic in the CT eval   stage 
				(seing that at least one RT pred with a value mismatch  comes to    at loop )


				will hopefullyyyy cuase    i      to be RTK   at the point of the loop, 




	but then, 


		whenever we see that an instruction   in this case        the     at loop 




		has all preds which have a ct value,    but which is   rtk  at the time of the   at  ins 


				thennn we materialize the varibale   generating    all the set's that are neccessary   right before the at 



	this also works for the following code





	rt N 0           (simple data flow example, showing how an initially CTK variable becomes RTK through RT data flow operations/instructions!)
	set i 5
	add i N






			here, see how     in the    add  i N   instruction          i is RTK here, 


					buttt   in all preds (one pred)   we have a ctk v of i 



					thus, we need to materialize  i     at the piont of the add.   ie, we will actually eagerly evaulate   i       at the set 
					but then    regenerate the set    at the add. 






	thats the idea 



its to regenerate the appropriate set statements lol 



this allows for arbitrary comptiletime evaulation to occur,   reducing down compiletime data down to just a simple set statement lol. its ppretty amazing!!!





but yeah, just to really spell out the loop example i was looking at earlier,   we have the fololwing code 




rt N 0          (a more complex example, showing how the merge point of RT CF only using CTK operations can result 
			in the merge point having a CTK var be RTK at that point, due to the RT CF. )
set i 0
at loop 
	add i 1
	lt i N loop





here, we see that 


	at the "at loop" ("merge point")


		we have a connection/merging of    one edge which is  CTK CF 


			implicit ip++   from    "set i 0"   to   "at loop"  



		and then we have another edge   which is           RTK CF 




			which originated from the   lt i N loop            a branch which uses RTK variables in its condition is of course,  RTK CF.  ("runtime-known control flow")



			and thus, we know that      at the merge point, 



				we know that both CT and RT control flow is happening. 






			if we see that at LEASTTT one     predecessor ("pred")    is runtime known,  



					thennnnn


						IFFFFFF    AND ONLY IF               we are processing a  CTK variable,  at this merge point, 




							ANDDDDD     WE SEE A   VALUE_MISMATCH   event    of the prior values of this ctk var  coming from these preds 




							THENNNNN





							we know that the variable must be  actually         RTK!!!   at the merge. 






								thats the key idea. 





			thennnnnn,

			all thats left to wrap up the entire problem and give a perfect complete solution  and be done with everything    and solve it completely 




						is to just  



										recognize that we need to   materialize         the variable  i          before  the  "at loop"  ins. 



					


			and we do that, just using the simple mechanism we already laid out for the "set i 5 add i N" example lol 




										the materialization   (and thus generation of multiple set statements prior to a given RT ins)

											happens when we see a variable is compiletime known on a predecessors, but is RTK at the RT ins itself.
											here, we know taht we need to generate the set statement to materialize the variable to be RT known now. 






				like, its that simple!





wow






i have literally been trying to solve this problem for like 


		idk, months lol 






and i finally solved it 

oh my goshhhhhh lol 





the amazingggg part  is 

	i literally havent seen this algortihm   like       anywhere lol 



			like i don't even know of any algortihm online  at all which does full runtime/compiletime analysis  on the code 


	like thats
		thast a hugeeee optimization lol 



	and we are literally doing itttt







gosh i love this so muchhh


yayyyyyyy



so yaeh 



i think thats the full solution   it kindaaaa sorta ish    works in my head lol 


like   its still rather blurry, but it might workkkkkk







		



wowwww



i love this!!!



